He brought it into the sphere of conscious method;
it became a conscious business with a definite aim
and procedure, instead of being a compound of
casual inspiration and subservience to tradition.
Moreover, everything in teaching and discipline
could be specified, instead of our having to be
content with vague and more or less mystic
generalities about ultimate ideals and speculative
spiritual symbols. He abolished the notion of
ready-made faculties, which might be trained by
exercise upon any sort of material, and made
attention to concrete subject matter, to the
content, all-important. Herbart undoubtedly has
had a greater influence in bringing to the front
questions connected with the material of study
than any other educational philosopher. He stated
problems of method from the standpoint of their
connection with subject matter: method having to
do with the manner and sequence of presenting
new subject matter to insure its proper
interaction with old.

The fundamental theoretical defect of this view
lies in ignoring the existence in a living being of
active and specific functions which are developed
in the redirection and combination which occur
as they are occupied with their environment. The
theory represents the Schoolmaster come to his
own. This fact expresses at once its strength and
its weakness. The conception that the mind
consists of what has been taught, and that the
07:37 AM Chapter Six: Educa. Progressive (4/18) 22.3%
