importance of what has been taught consists in its
availability for further teaching, reflects the
pedagogue's view of life. The philosophy is
eloquent about the duty of the teacher in
instructing pupils; it is almost silent regarding his
privilege of learning. It emphasizes the influence
of intellectual environment upon the mind; it
slurs over the fact that the environment involves
a personal sharing in common experiences. It
exaggerates beyond reason the possibilities of
consciously formulated and used methods, and
underestimates the role of vital, unconscious,
attitudes. It insists upon the old, the past, and
passes lightly over the operation of the genuinely
novel and unforeseeable. It takes, in brief,
everything educational into account save its
essence,â€”vital energy seeking opportunity for
effective exercise. All education forms character,
mental and moral, but formation consists in the
selection and coordination of native activities so
that they may utilize the subject matter of the
social environment. Moreover, the formation is
not only a formation of native activities, but it
takes place through them. It is a process of
reconstruction, reorganization.

2. Education as  Recapitulation and
Retrospection. A peculiar combination of the ideas
of development and formation from without has
given rise to the recapitulation theory of
education, biological and cultural. The individual
A OE AH LH. 20
(39) 07:38 AM. Chapter Six: Educa. Progressive (4/18) 22.3%
