distinctive temperament. We indiscriminately
employ children of different bents on the same
exercises; their education destroys the special
bent and leaves a dull uniformity. Therefore after
we have wasted our efforts in stunting the true
gifts of nature we see the short-lived and illusory
brilliance we have substituted die away, while the
natural abilities we have crushed do not revive."
Lastly, the aim of following nature means to
note the origin, the waxing, and waning, of
preferences and interests. Capacities bud and
bloom irregularly; there is no even four-abreast
development. We must strike while the iron is hot.
Especially precious are the first dawnings of
power. More than we imagine, the ways in which
the tendencies of early childhood are treated fix
fundamental dispositions and condition the turn
taken by powers that show themselves later.
Educational concern with the early years of life—
as distinct from inculcation of useful arts—dates
almost entirely from the time of the emphasis by
Pestalozzi and Froebel, following Rousseau, of
natural principles of growth. The irregularity of
growth and its significance is indicated in the
following passage of a student of the growth of
the nervous system. "While growth continues,
things bodily and mental are lopsided, for growth
is never general, but is accentuated now at one
spot, now at another. The methods which shall
recognize in the presence of these enormous
07:56 AM Chapter Nine: Natu..cy as Aims (9/21) 26.6%
