fail to call out a protest. The opposing emphasis
took the form of a doctrine that the business of
education is to supply precisely what nature fails
to secure; namely, habituation of an individual to
social control; subordination of natural powers to
social rules. It is not surprising to find that the
value in the idea of social efficiency resides
largely in its protest against the points at which
the doctrine of natural development went astray;
while its misuse comes when it is employed to
slur over the truth in that conception. It is a fact
that we must look to the activities and
achievements of associated life to find what the
development of power—that is to say, efficiency—
means. The error is in implying that we must
adopt measures of subordination rather than of
utilization to secure efficiency. The doctrine is
rendered adequate when we recognize that social
efficiency is attained not by negative constraint
but by positive use of native individual capacities
in occupations having a social meaning. (1)
Translated into specific aims, social efficiency
indicates the importance of industrial competency.
Persons cannot live without means of subsistence;
the ways in which these means are employed and
consumed have a profound influence upon all the
relationships of persons to one another. If an
individual is not able to earn his own living and
that of the children dependent upon him, he is a
drag or parasite upon the activities of others. He
misses for himself one of the most educative
07:56 AM Chapter Nine: Natu..y as Aims (13/21) 26.8%
