And it is well to remind ourselves that
education as such has no aims. Only persons,
parents, and teachers, etc, have aims, not an
abstract idea like education. And consequently
their purposes are indefinitely varied, differing
with different children, changing as children grow
and with the growth of experience on the part of
the one who teaches. Even the most valid aims
‘which can be put in words will, as words, do more
harm than good unless one recognizes that they
are not aims, but rather suggestions to educators
as to how to observe, how to look ahead, and how
to choose in liberating and directing the energies
of the concrete situations in which they find
themselves. As a recent writer has said: "To lead
this boy to read Scott's novels instead of old
Sleuth's stories; to teach this girl to sew; to root
out the habit of bullying from John's make-up; to
prepare this class to study medicine, —these are
samples of the millions of aims we have actually
before us in the concrete work of education."
Bearing these qualifications in mind, we shall
proceed to state some of the characteristics found
in all good educational aims. (1) An educational
aim must be founded upon the intrinsic activities
and needs (including original instincts and
acquired habits) of the given individual to be
educated. The tendency of such an aim as
preparation is, as we have seen, to omit existing
powers, and find the aim in some remote
accomplishment or responsibility. In general,
07:51 AM 1. The Nature of an Aim. (13/18) 25.2%
