education, and the narrowly disciplinary or
cultural character of most higher education. It
accounts for the tendency to isolate intellectual
matters till knowledge is scholastic, academic, and
professionally technical, and for the widespread
conviction that liberal education is opposed to the
requirements of an education which shall count
in the vocations of life. But it also helps define the
peculiar problem of present education. The school
cannot immediately escape from the ideals set by
prior social conditions. But it should contribute
through the type of intellectual and emotional
disposition which it forms to the improvement of
those conditions. And just here the true
conceptions of interest and discipline are full of
significance. Persons whose interests have been
enlarged and intelligence trained by dealing with
things and facts in active occupations having a
purpose (whether in play or work) will be those
most likely to escape the alternatives of an
academic and aloof knowledge and a hard,
narrow, and merely â€œpractical' practice. To
organize education so that natural active
tendencies shall be fully enlisted in doing
something, while seeing to it that the doing
requires observation, the acquisition of
information, and the use of a constructive
imagination, is what most needs to be done to
improve social conditions. To oscillate between
drill exercises that strive to attain efficiency in
outward doing without the use of intelligence. and
(35) 08:08 AM Chapter Ten: Interes. Discipline (22/23) 29.5%
