nature was, after all, but to negate the very idea
of education; it was to trust to the accidents of
circumstance. Not only was some method
required but also some positive organ, some
administrative agency for carrying on the process
of instruction. The "complete and harmonious
development of all powers," having as its social
counterpart an enlightened and progressive
humanity, required definite organization for its
realization. Private individuals here and there
could proclaim the gospel; they could not execute
the work. A Pestalozzi could try experiments and
exhort philanthropically inclined persons having
‘wealth and power to follow his example. But even
Pestalozzi saw that any effective pursuit of the
new educational ideal required the support of the
state. The realization of the new education
destined to produce a new society was, after all,
dependent upon the activities of existing states.
The movement for the democratic idea inevitably
became a movement for publicly conducted and
administered schools.

So far as Europe was concerned, the historic
situation identified the movement for a state-
supported education with the nationalistic
movement in political life—a fact of incalculable
significance for subsequent movements. Under
the influence of German thought in particular,
education became a civic function and the civic
function was identified with the realization of the
07:46 AM Chapter Seven: The.. Education (21/30) 23.8%
